Let's talk about sticky sessions
or so-called session affinity
for your elastic load balancer.
So it's possible to implement
what's called stickiness or sticky sessions.
And the idea is that the client
doing two requests to the load balancer
will have the same instance in the backend
to respond to the request.
So the idea is that, for example, you have the ALB
with two EC2 instances and you have three clients.
If the client one makes a request
and it goes to the first EC2 instance,
that means that when it does a second request
to the load balancer, it will go to the same instance,
which is a different behavior
where usually the application balancer
will do a spread of all the requests
across all the EC2 instances.
Now for client two, if it goes to the ALB
and talks to the second instance,
then all the requests will go there.
And same for client three, okay?
So this can be enabled for the Classic Load Balancer
Application Balancer and Network Load Balancer.
And how it works, well, there is a cookie
that is sent as part of the request
from the clients to the load balancer
and it has stickiness and it has an expiration date.
That means that when the cookie expires,
then the client may be redirected to another EC2 instance.
The use case for this is to make sure
that the user is connected to the same backend instance
in order not to lose his session data,
which can take some important information
such as the login of the user, for example.
But if you enable stickiness,
it may bring imbalance to the load
over the backend EC2 instances
in case some instances I have a very, very sticky user.
Okay, now to go a little bit deeper,
how about the cookie itself?
Well, there are two types of cookie
that you can have for sticky sessions.
The first one is application-based cookie
and the second one is duration-based cookie.
So for application-based cookies,
well, it's a custom cookie that is generated by the target,
so by your application itself.
And you can include any custom attributes you want
required by your application.
The cookie name must be specified individually
for each target group, okay?
And you may not, you must not use the following names,
so AWSALB, AWSALBAPPOR or AWSALBTG,
because they are already reserved for use by the ELB itself.
Or it could be an application cookie.
And this time will be generated by the load balancer itself,
and the cookie name used by the ALB will be AWSALBAPP, okay?
Now the second type of cookies is duration-based cookie
and it's a cookie generated by the load answer,
and the name is AWSALB for the ALB
and AWSELB for the CLB, okay?
And the idea is this one,
will have an expiry based on a specific duration,
and the duration is generated
by the load balancer itself, okay?
Whereas before, while there is an application-based cookie,
so the duration can be specified by the application itself.
So that's how it works, okay?
You don't need to remember exactly the name of the cookies
or the fact that you have custom and application,
but you remember there's application-based cookies
and duration based, and they have a specific name.
And this will be coming into account
when we talk about CloudFront.
Okay, so if I look at my load balancer right now
and I open it in the new tab, as you can see,
it goes between my three instances in my load answer.
So that's perfect.
But now I'm going to enable sticky sessions.
So to do so, I'm going to go at the target group level,
open my target group and then Action,
and I will can edit the attributes of my target group.
So here, let's scroll down
and we have the target selection configuration,
and here we have stickiness.
So here for stickiness, we can turn it on.
And we have two types of stickiness available to us.
We have a load balancer generated cookie
or the application based cookie.
So let's look at the first one.
So here we're able to set a duration.
So between one second to seven days, you can modify it here.
Or if you wanted to have your own application cookie,
again, they are the same settings,
but you need to add an app cookie name,
for example, MYCUSTOMCOOKIEAPP.
And this is just a name that you would give your cookie
so that you know how to apply stickiness
at the low balancer level.
Now, to keep things simple,
we're going to choose Load balancer generated cookie
and have everything as the default, so one day.
And let's click on Save changes.
So now let's have a look.
So I'm going to go and open the debugger as well,
so we can have a look at the network and see what happens.
So if you ever look at the network
and then I refresh this page,
as we can see, I refresh multiple times, okay?
You get access to the same instance.
So 7176 is the one that's coming back,
back and back and back.
And now what's going to happen
is that when you look at the get request
made to the load balancer.
I'm very, very sorry for the font size here.
I don't think I can really increase it.
But if you go to Cookies, as you can see here,
there is a response cookie, okay,
that is saying that your cookie expires tomorrow.
Here is the path and here is the value of the cookie.
And then in the request cookie,
when the browser makes a request to the load balancer,
it sends again the cookie it has right here.
And so because of the cookie being passed and sent,
this is how stickiness works, okay?
So just a little bit of a deeper dive
into how stickiness works.
But that's it for this lecture.
I hope you liked it.
And by the way, to access the web developer tools,
you click on Web Developer and then Web Developer Tools.
And I just use a short shortcut for that.
And it's the same on Chrome and Firefox.
And then you go into Network
and you get access to your information
around your request, okay?
And finally, just go back to your target group,
and then you edit the attributes itself
and you can disable stickiness
to come back to a normal behavior,
which should be good to go.
So that's it for this lecture, I hope you liked it.
And I will see you in the next lecture.